You can see so far away!
The sun's gonna rise soon!
Don't look at the sun through the telescope.
If the stones you guys got
are the right ones...
Wow, it's like a mountain of jewels.
It's not like a mountain of jewels.
It is a mountain of jewels.
It's a treasure trove of super rare metals.
Jewels, my ass.
They're just slightly heavy rocks.
After all that fuss...
We're going to win against
Tsukasa-chan's army with these rocks.
With these rocks?
I see.
With these gems!
I can see them being heavy
enough to really hurt.
Father, I don't think that's what...
You can't blame him.
Father is of an older generation.
What?!
We're up against Tsukasa-chan's army.
They're going to be seriously tough.
Our plan is to make cell phones using
these rocks and win the information war.
But, Senku, how much longer is it going
to take to make our cell phones?
She's right.
Once spring comes, Tsukasa-kun's
army is going to be rushing in.
The goal's not that far away.
To put it simply...
The vacuum tube is the
heart of the cell phone.
Ramen
Plastics make up its skeleton.
The microphone is the vocal cord.
Ramen
The gold wire is the veins.
With these four body parts,
we can finish the cell phone.
This mega-huge science project
is coming to a close.
Copper
Coal
Charcoal
Beehive
Sulfuric
Acid
Lead
Tin
Solder
Gold
Wire
Coil
Mercury
Vacuum
Pump
Phosphorus
Rochelle
Salt
Plastic
Battery
Circuit Board
Vacuum Tube
Light Bulb
Wine
Microphone
Headphones
Cell Phone
Everyone, we're sprinting all
the way to the goal from here!
Wave of Science
First, we're going to make the filaments,
which are essential for the vacuum tubes...
using tungsten, the most heat-resistant
metal in the universe,
Heat Resistance Power Rankings
Tungsten
Osmium
Iron
Rhenium
Gold
Silver
Lead
Glass
sleeping inside this blue light.
But, Senku, how are we going
to get it out of the stone?
About that... It's going to be tough as hell.
What the hell are you two doing?!
We're getting it out of the rocks, aren't we?
All we need to do is destroy it.
I mean, that works.
We'll be turning it into powder, anyway.
See? I was right!
No one asked you!
What if you'd been wrong?!
This is unusual.
He's hardly doing it right,
but I've never seen him offer to help.
Did something happen in the cave?
You get to see all the insane stuff
that humanity worked together
for two million years to build.
Stuff you never would've seen otherwise.
And I'll show you so much of it,
it'll make your head spin.
Senku!
I don't care if you're the boss anymore.
At least, until we deal with that Tsukasa guy.
Gee, I don't know.
We're done.
What's next?
I'm going to do chemistry stuff
to this powdered blue rock
to turn it into something
resembling toothpaste.
Right, you're doing chemistry stuff.
The stuff it wouldn't do me
any good to ask about.
Lastly, we're going to get rid of the rust
on the toothpaste stuff using hydrogen,
warm it up in a glass container, and it's done.
It needs to be at least 1,000 degrees.
The hotter it is,
the stronger the tungsten will be.
So all we have to do is cook it.
Hey, it's actually pretty easy.
What are you, stupid?
What would happen to a glass container
if you threw it into a fire
that's 1,000 degrees?
Tungsten
Glass
We have to heat up just the tungsten
toothpaste inside the glass container.
Then we need a heating mechanism
with pinpoint accuracy.
How do we do it?
We don't have time. Let's split up the work.
I'll deal with the
toothpaste-making chemistry stuff.
So who's making the
pinpoint heating mechanism?
Are there any other science users?
Chrome, you know everything you
need to make one from scratch.
Throw all the science tricks
you've learned at it.
Or do you need Senku-sensei's help?
Don't make me laugh.
I'm Chrome!
I'm a smart-as-hell science user!
Don't come crying to me for help at your lab.
Yeah, I got the lab stuff.
I'm leaving you in charge of the heating team.
You make me jealous.
You know, I've always loved
making things, even as a kid.
I made all sorts of things—bridges, shields—
so that people wouldn't look at me funny.
Thanks to that, I get to pretend I'm
still in the game, even at this age.
But to be honest, I can't help but
wish I had a maker buddy, too.
But you have two friends, Old Man Kaseki.
Maker buddies.
Two?
Where?
Right here.
Me?
Even though I'm almost
fifty years older than you?
Our age?
That matters somehow?
What the hell?!
He's even more gung-ho than usual.
Come help me over here, modern man.
You must know at least a little
more chemistry than the villagers.
I'm not sure.
There's a ridiculous number of steps.
I bet you won't get a millimeter
of this, so I'll make it simple.
Cook the blue gem powder
in sodium hydroxide;
use sea shells, hydrochloric acid,
and ammonia to crystallize it;
and then bake it and mix it with honey.
Okay! I understood all of that, Senku-chan.
Honey! Bake it, and then honey.
I got that much.
Chrome's definitely ten billion
times more useful than you.
Nah, I don't think anyone
could have kept up with that.
You're the only one who gets it, Senku-chan.
Nothing beats this when it
comes to pinpoint heating!
There it is! Chrome's special move!
Quit showing it off.
You're reminding me of bad times.
I don't know how much
heat it produces, though.
Let's set up some metals
in order of heat resistance
so we can measure the temperature.
It's not even doing anything to the lead,
and that's the weakest one.
It's winter, after all.
If we just had a little more sunlight...
Throw all the science tricks
you've learned at it.
We're using fire, too.
Add the cotton candy machine
to the pinpoint heating!
Blorp...
Lead
Damn! We need more than just me and Suika.
We defeated the lead, though.
Blurrp
Gold
Silver
Wow, we beat gold and silver!
Good going, battle team!
Blurrgh
Iron
We made it to iron!
Go, gorilla team!
We made it past 1,000 degrees!
It needs to be at least 1,000 degrees.
The hotter it is, the stronger
the tungsten will be.
No, we need more.
Add electricity power!
All right, it's done!
Tungsten toothpaste!
How are things on your side, heating team?
We're just about done.
Not bad, science user.
What the hell is this
all-of-the-above mega set?!
Senku, you were the one who
said to throw everything at it.
This isn't what I meant.
This thing's ugly as hell.
Honestly, though, this might
actually be the best solution.
If the goal is for all of us to join
together to raise the temperature...
We're going to make a long,
thin blob of tungsten toothpaste.
Zap water with electricity,
and it'll produce hydrogen.
That hydrogen, with a lot of heat,
peels the rust right off the toothpaste.
Here we go. Pinpoint heating...
...to several thousand degrees!
We have the most heat-resistant
metal in the universe...
A tungsten filament!
Now, we have everything we need.
Ramen
We're on our final sprint
to making cell phones!
Let's get it done one step at a time.
Time to build the cell phone's
heart, the vacuum tube.
There's some slightly complicated
glasswork we need done to finish that.
I don't know if even you can
handle it, Old Man Kaseki.
Oh, please.
I made this ridiculously challenging,
twisty thing before.
It'll take more than that to scare me.
Here, show me the blueprint.
"Hickman Pump"
It's called a Hickman pump.
Its vacuum action is off the charts!
A level ten billion vacuum pump!
You sound like a vacuum cleaner commercial.
Vacuum tubes are made by
removing as much air as possible.
The prototype we built before was a
simple level-one pump for light bulbs.
It won't give us enough power.
Air
Where do I even begin?
Is this even humanly possible?
In our age, only the super talented
craftsmen built Hickman pumps.
Then again, it was a different age,
so don't feel too bad, Kaseki-chan.
It'll never work.
Is that true?
Yeah.
It's true, but why would
a mentalist know that?
He's just talking out of his
ass to get Kaseki fired up.
I'm fine.
I don't need your mental care.
It's the complicated stuff that
gets me fired up, anyway.
In exchange, though...
I want to do that thing you
did with Chrome the other day.
Y'know...
as maker buddies.
All right!
You can handle the vacuum tube, Kaseki.
Gotcha!
Hey, hey, Senku...
I just noticed something.
Old Man Kaseki's acting like a kid and all,
but he's actually trying to
lighten your burden a little.
I know that. What are you, stupid?
S-Senku...
Is there anything we kids can do?
Yeah.
Suika, you guys can handle the wire.
Yay!
We're members of the kingdom of science, too.
We kids are going to make the
wire without relying on Senku!
Yeah!
Now the chemistry team
can focus on making plastic.
Yeah!
Although I have no idea what
this whatever-tic stuff is.
Actually, that's the step on the road map
that I was the most worried about.
Copper
Coal
Charcoal
Beehive
Plastic
Can we even make plastic in this world?
Isn't it made from, like,
petroleum or something?
Come, Gen, you're with us.
I'm going to work you to death in
return for getting me hyped up.
So mean!
Old Man Kaseki's kind of got
a soft spot for Gen, huh?
Let's hurry up and start making some plastic.
First, we simmer some wood and
boil the liquid that comes out.
Pour it over some hot copper, and—
Wait, wait, wait!
I'm completely lost.
You heat it to get some liquid,
heat that again, and heat that again?
What are we even doing?
We're modding the heck out of it,
adding and removing ingredients.
Chemistry is all about
addition and subtraction.
We did some addition and subtraction,
and now we have formalin.
It's the stuff you use to preserve corpses.
The smell!
Here we go again with the sketchy chemicals
having to do with corpses and stuff!
Good.
Now we just need a ton of coal ash.
Coal ash plus sodium hydroxide
plus formaline makes
humanity's first synthetic plastic, bakelite.
R-Right.
So we just need to burn a
crazy amount of coal, right?
My hands are numb from cold.
We aren't getting much work done.
What a harsh winter this is.
I hope no one dies from the cold this year.
Coal?
Yeah.
We need a stupid amount of it.
This is just the job for you guys.
Hey, Ginro.
Where to?
Oh, you know, I have to train, too.
And I already work as a guard
protecting the village,
so I think I'll pass.
What are you talking about?
The village elder Senku's word is law.
This is totally going to
be one of those hard jobs!
Rules are rules.
It's so warm in this house.
Let's make a warm meal
for everyone to eat.
We can get our work done a lot faster now.
We're only after the ashes from the coals.
If you want to sit by the
fire, suit yourselves.
This is impressive.
What you're making is totally unrelated,
and yet the village becomes
more and more enriched.
Yeah.
That's the way science is.
Senku, my decision to grant you
the throne wasn't in error.
Huh? Zinc-carbon batteries?
Are we using batteries to
finish the vacuum tubes?
The build instructions
and materials are there.
We'll use the manganese
we got in the caves.
So you want me to make them, right?
Zinc for seaweed.
Manganese rice balls.
Coal in the middle.
Look at that, a zinc-carbon battery.
Huh?
It's already done.
It wasn't that brutal!
Manganese rice balls.
Tons of manganese.
Lots of manganese.
Manganese rice balls.
Tons of manganese.
We need 800 of those.
What?! Eight hundred?!
This is brutal.
I'll help, of course.
Here's the wine you asked for.
Are you holding a banquet or something?
No, we're making microphones,
the cell phone's vocal cord.
With wine?
Yeah.
Actually, we're using the pink
grains stuck on the lid here.
Then we mix some cooked seaweed in hot water.
That's it.
Which part of this is the "microphone" thing?
Also, what are these shiny rocks?
They're called Rochelle salts.
They turn sound into electricity.
Tack this onto something light,
like a plastic megaphone,
and you get a microphone.
We've cleared plastic!
We've cleared wire!
We've cleared vacuum tubes!
We've cleared microphones!
Copper
Coal
Charcoal
Beehive
Sulfuric
Acid
Lead
Tin
Solder
Gold
Wire
Coil
Mercury
Vacuum
Pump
Phosphorus
Rochelle
Salt
Beehive
Battery
Circuit Board
Vacuum Tube
Light Bulb
Wine
Microphone
Headphones
Cell Phone
The most powerful weapon of modern warfare,
delivering voices over infinite distances...
It's the birth of the cell phone!
Yeah, baby!
Cell phone acquired!!
Yay!
Oh, man!
We managed to finish it before spring.
The final battle against Tsukasa is at hand.
This is exhilarating.
Voices Over Infinite Distance
Next Episode
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.